<?xml version='1.0'?>
<?xml-stylesheet type='application/xslt+xml' href='stylesheets/html.xsl'?>
<doc:module xmlns='http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml' xmlns:doc='xefis-doc'>
	<doc:meta>
		<doc:title>ADC - Air Data Computer</doc:title>
		<doc:name>systems/adc</doc:name>
	</doc:meta>
	<p>ADC computes pressure altitude and indicated air speed. Actually it doesn't compute IAS, it just smooths it out from unsmoothed IAS from a sensor.</p>
	<p>Computations are reliable up to 36,000 ft altitude and about 0.3 mach speed.</p>
	<section>
		<h1>Settings</h1>
		<doc:settings>
			<doc:item name='ias.valid-minimum' type='speed'>
				<p>Minimum IAS reported by the sensor to be considered valid.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='ias.valid-maximum' type='speed'>
				<p>Maximum IAS reported by the sensor to be considered valid.</p>
			</doc:item>
		</doc:settings>
		<p>
			If IAS is not between <code>ias.valid-minimum</code> inclusive and <code>ias.valid-maximum</code> inclusive, some output values
			won't be computed.
		</p>
	</section>
	<section>
		<h1>Input</h1>
		<doc:properties>
			<doc:item name='settings.pressure.use-std' type='boolean'>
				<p>
					Should be <var>true</var> if STD (standard pressure) switch is on, <var>false</var> otherwise.
					If <var>true</var>, 29.92 inHg (1013 hPa) pressure setting is used for computing altitude,
					otherwise pressure setting is read from the <code>settings.pressure.qnh</code> property.
				</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='settings.pressure.qnh' type='pressure'>
				<p>QNH pressure setting used by altimeter.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='pressure.static.serviceable' type='boolean'>
				<p>Static pressure sensor is serviceable.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='pressure.static' type='pressure'>
				<p>Static pressure read from a hardware sensor.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='ias.serviceable' type='boolean'>
				<p>IAS sensor is serviceable.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='ias' type='speed'>
				<p>IAS reported by the dynamic pressure sensor.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:item name='static-air-temperature' type='temperature'>
				<p>Static air temperature value. If <var>nil</var> some output values will not be computed (TAS, Density altitude).</p>
			</doc:item>
		</doc:properties>
	</section>
	<section>
		<h1>Output</h1>
		<p>IAS is in <q>valid range</q> when IAS reported by the sensor is in range [<code>ias.valid-minimum</code>, <code>ias.valid-maximum</code>].</p>
		<doc:properties>
			<doc:item name='density-altitude' type='length'>
				<p>Density altitude for given pressure and static air temperature.</p>
			</doc:item>
			<doc:group title='Altitude'>
				<doc:item name='altitude.amsl.serviceable' type='boolean'>
					<p>Sensors used to calculate altitude are all serviceable.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='altitude.amsl' type='length'>
					<p>Pressure altitude AMSL result.</p>
					<p>
						If <code>settings.pressure.use-std</code> is <var>true</var>, this property will hold altitude for STD setting,
						otherwise for QNH setting.
					</p>
					<p>
						It will read <var>nil</var> if <code>pressure-static</code> is <var>nil</var>;
						or if <code>settings.pressure.qnh</code> is <var>nil</var> and <code>settings.pressure.qnh</code> is <var>false</var>.
					</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='altitude.amsl.lookahead' type='length'>
					<p>Estimated altitude AMSL after 10 seconds from now.</p>
					<p>It will read <var>nil</var> for the same reasons as <code>altitude.amsl</code>.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='altitude.amsl.qnh' type='length'>
					<p>Pressure altitude computed for QNH setting (regardless of value of <code>settings.pressure.use-std</code>).</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='altitude.amsl.std' type='length'>
					<p>Pressure altitude computed for STD setting (regardless of value of <code>settings.pressure.use-std</code>).</p>
				</doc:item>
			</doc:group>
			<doc:group title='Speed'>
				<doc:item name='speed.ias.serviceable' type='boolean'>
					<p>Sensors used to calculate IAS are all serviceable.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='speed.ias' type='speed'>
					<p>IAS (Indicated Air Speed) of the aircraft.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='speed.ias.lookahead' type='speed'>
					<p>Estimated IAS after 10 seconds from now.</p>
					<p><var>nil</var> if <code>speed.ias</code> is <var>nil</var> or not in valid range.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='speed.tas' type='speed'>
					<p>TAS (True Air Speed) computed from IAS, altitude and density altitude.</p>
					<p><var>nil</var> if altitude AMSL invalid or if IAS not in valid range.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='speed.mach' type='float'>
					<p>Computed Mach number.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='speed.sound' type='speed'>
					<p>Computed speed of sound in current environment.</p>
				</doc:item>
			</doc:group>
			<doc:group title='Vertical speed'>
				<doc:item name='vertical-speed.serviceable' type='boolean'>
					<p>Sensors used to calculate vertical-speed are all serviceable.</p>
				</doc:item>
				<doc:item name='vertical-speed' type='speed'>
					<p>Vertical speed of the aircraft (also called <q>climb rate</q>).</p>
				</doc:item>
			</doc:group>
		</doc:properties>
	</section>
</doc:module>
